---
title: Science
permalink: /curricular/science/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Curricular
---
<h2>SCIENCE</h2><h4>OUR VISION</h4><p>Students to become independent, active and creative learners through the processes of inquiry and investigation, incorporating technology and thinking skills.</p><h4>OUR APPROACH</h4><p>The Primary Science Syllabus comprises of Core Ideas, which are organized as themes, Practices and Values, Ethics and Attitudes.</p><p>At CHIJ (Katong) Primary, we aim to make the learning of science concepts fun and engaging through authentic learning experiences. Activities are aligned to MOE’s Science Curriculum, seeking to develop students as inquirers. With varied learning experiences both in and out of the classroom, students are engaged in the Practices of Science such as posing questions, designing and conducting investigations, analysing, interpreting and communicating data, making informed decisions, and constructing and designing solutions.</p><p>The RESCUE approach is a strategy to guide the pupils to answer Process-Skills Questions.</p><p>We hope to nurture in our students positive attitudes such as curiosity, resilience, open-mindedness and responsibility.</p><h4>OUR ACTIVITIES</h4><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Create a Toy @ IJ Competition</p><p>Create a Toy @ IJ Competition is organised annually with the aim of nurturing creativity and curiosity in students. Through brainstorming for ideas for a toy, students discover that Science is all around us. The process of creating the requires students to think out of the box, as they compare and evaluate different materials to use to make the toy, while applying science knowledge and concepts.</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vTupSknVMC5UU7vEyldBj9690L4K2puTb3YS6yPwt6-2cHTeRUOYtpp4q1CghPYDIjC8H4Z-l5vVjq8/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div><p></p></li><li><p>Hydroponics and Aquaponics @ IJ</p></li></ol><p>The Hydroponics and Aquaponics programme is conducted for the P3 and P4 students not just to teach them about life cycles of plants. Beyond learning in the classroom, students develop a sense of responsibility when they take care of their allocated area and show appreciation for how food gets from the source to our plates.</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRYFxWYBwEBqQPFjD4aTCTgJfXVzwzF8v8ffM85gf7cpUlrQfT4XwFjhh_U2i09Jc7idsXeoxDKwliP/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div><ol start="3" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Joy for Learning in Science</p><p>Through varied modes of teaching methods and activities, students are encouraged to explore and engage in constructive discussions with their peers, to gain a deeper understanding of observations and phenomena around us.</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSn_pkCyaE_Yg6Lb2S4rKThUDXYJB8fmwE6fzCtRMOPlUWLZvP_YaXwnzezEObGLjiBVF_Gkp1JbIU5/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div></li></ol><ol start="4" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>‘Let’s Recycle with our Neighbours’ 2023</p><p>Reduce, reuse, recycle is a phrase that many of us are acquainted with. At CHIJ (Katong) Primary, we attempt to incorporate these principles into the classroom to pass it on to the next generation. In collaboration with our parent volunteers, the science monitors embark on a visit around the neighbourhood to gather newspapers for recycling. Such an activity can help our students in character-building and to create an awareness about the needs to conserve and save the environment.</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRYOCqs7WothV_KTHn_6ayUxf2ygr1LcsHtQsNXUB3HJY9Up3AMSLR_c3EaBzaxmyXW0r-TIvSk-S4m/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div><p></p></li><li><p>Science Learning Journeys</p><p>Learning journeys to either the Science Centre or the Singapore Zoological Gardens are conducted for the P3 to P6 students as an extension to the current Science syllabus. It is through such trips that the students become more acquainted and aware of conservation efforts, scientific concepts and much more.</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ7IoyOEs1sbYzXevp1Sahy_q9Sjm4JhePtd3_KDy66lPGT7IiZeSskzIPG01nRaocAzMliHBO9MH53/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div><p></p></li><li><p>Science Fun Day @ IJ</p><p>Science Fun Day is spent discovering all things science. The science monitors are tasked with conducting interesting and engaging experiments for their schoolmates, which provide them with the opportunity to get first-hand experience at exploring and discovering various scientific concepts.</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vReXuxtFaVkmqbeGSgJE8a9m20vP_nwn7EyyqVWtdcKz0kJfj79DkzktlXAyK1FES6KTLB5e-GJfkdF/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div><p></p></li><li><p>The Living Classroom at East Coast Park</p><p>“The Living Classroom” nature trail is specially designed to engage our Primary 5 students in a meaningful educational experience beyond the classroom walls. The students are led by their fellow classmates who have been trained as nature guides. During the trail, the students will be immersed in a realm of knowledge related to flora and fauna, which will not only captivate their senses but bring them closer to nature!</p><div class="iframe-wrapper"><iframe height="569" width="960" allowfullscreen="true" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQrCXe92RBvbWFsEd8DhB-NTRKirZRiSbp3fqyftkA4BVza7W0R4hJC9fdBltyLgo9i9Rn-2YFCHWMz/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000"></iframe></div><p></p></li><li><p>E2K Programme</p><p>This is a science enrichment programme targeted for P4 and P5 students who show a high aptitude in science. It aims to develop scientific inquiry process skills as well as nurture important 21st century competencies such as resilience and resourcefulness, critical and inventive thinking and effective communication skills.</p><p></p><p></p></li></ol><p></p>